# Celery 

- https://docs.celeryq.dev/en/stable/

Celery is a popular distributed task queue framework in Python that helps 
with handling asynchronous and distributed tasks. It allows you to offload 
time-consuming tasks to separate worker processes or machines, enabling 
parallel processing and improving the overall performance of your 
application. 

Celery consists of three main components: 

1. **Celery Client**: The client is responsible for sending tasks to the 
Celery workers for execution. It can be integrated into your Python 
application to define and enqueue tasks. 

2. **Celery Workers**: Workers are the processes or machines that receive 
tasks from the client and execute them. They can run on different machines 
and perform tasks concurrently, making it suitable for distributed computing. 

3. **Broker and Result Backend**: Celery uses a message broker to handle 
communication between the client and workers. The broker acts as a message 
queue where tasks are stored before being picked up by workers. Additionally, 
Celery provides a result backend where the task results can be stored for 
retrieval by the client. 

Here's a typical workflow with Celery: 

1. The client enqueues a task by sending a message to the broker. 

2. The worker picks up the task from the broker and executes it. 

3. The worker sends the result of the task, which can be stored in the result 
backend. 

4. The client can then retrieve the result from the result backend. 

Celery supports various brokers, such as RabbitMQ, Redis, and Amazon SQS, 
allowing you to choose the one that best fits your requirements. Similarly, 
it provides multiple result backends like RabbitMQ, Redis, and databases such 
as PostgreSQL and MongoDB. 

Overall, Celery is a powerful tool for managing distributed and background 
tasks in Python applications, providing scalability, fault tolerance, and 
efficient task execution. 



## When and in what situation should I use Celery?

You should consider using Celery in the following situations: 

1. **Asynchronous Task Processing**: If your application needs to perform 
time-consuming tasks that don't require immediate results, Celery can offload 
these tasks to separate workers, allowing your application to continue 
processing other requests without waiting for the tasks to complete. This is 
particularly useful for tasks like sending emails, generating reports, or 
processing large datasets. 

2. **Background Processing**: Celery is commonly used for background 
processing in web applications. For example, when a user submits a form or 
performs an action that triggers a task, you can use Celery to handle the 
task in the background, ensuring that the user doesn't have to wait for the 
task to finish before getting a response. This improves the responsiveness 
and overall user experience of your application. 

3. **Task Scheduling**: Celery provides scheduling functionality, allowing 
you to execute tasks at specified intervals or at specific times. This is 
useful for implementing recurring tasks, periodic data updates, or any task 
that needs to be executed on a schedule. 

4. **Distributed Computing**: If your application requires distributing tasks 
across multiple machines or processes to achieve parallel processing and 
improve performance, Celery provides a scalable solution. By utilizing 
multiple workers, you can distribute the workload and leverage the available 
resources efficiently. 

5. **Fault Tolerance and Scalability**: Celery offers fault tolerance by 
allowing tasks to be retried if they fail. It also provides options for 
setting task priorities, timeouts, and rate limiting. With Celery's ability 
to scale horizontally by adding more workers, you can handle increasing 
workloads and ensure high availability. 

In summary, use Celery when you need to offload time-consuming tasks, perform 
background processing, schedule tasks, distribute work across multiple 
workers, and achieve fault tolerance and scalability in your Python 
applications.


## Other similar libraries

While Celery is a popular and widely-used library for distributed task 
queueing in Python, there are also other libraries that offer similar 
functionality and aim to solve similar problems. Here are a few alternatives 
to Celery: 

1. **RQ (Redis Queue)**: RQ is a simple and lightweight task queueing library 
that is built on top of Redis. It provides similar functionality to Celery 
but with a focus on simplicity and ease of use. RQ is a good choice for 
applications that don't require the advanced features and scalability offered 
by Celery. 

2. **Dramatiq**: Dramatiq is another task processing library for Python that 
focuses on simplicity and performance. It supports distributed task 
processing, scheduling, and retries, and offers an intuitive API. Dramatiq is 
designed to be easy to set up and use, making it suitable for smaller 
projects or scenarios where a lightweight solution is preferred. 

3. **huey**: Huey is a lightweight, multi-threaded task queueing library for 
Python. It uses Redis as the message broker and provides features such as 
task scheduling, retries, and rate limiting. Huey aims to be simple and easy 
to integrate into your Python applications while still offering the necessary 
functionality for background task processing. 

4. **django-rq**: If you are specifically working with Django, django-rq is a 
library that integrates RQ into the Django web framework. It provides a 
convenient way to enqueue and process background tasks within a Django 
application using Redis as the message broker. 

These are just a few examples of task queueing libraries in Python. The 
choice of library depends on your specific requirements, the complexity of 
your application, and your preference for features, scalability, and ease of 
use. It's worth exploring these alternatives to Celery to find the one that 
best fits your needs. 


## Hello world

In Celery, a "hello world" example typically involves defining a simple task 
and executing it using a Celery worker. Here's an example of a basic "hello 
world" program using Celery: 

1. First, you'll need to install Celery if you haven't already. 
   You can use pip to install it:

   ```bash
   pip install celery
   ```

2. Create a file called `tasks.py` and define a Celery task within it:

   ```python
   from celery import Celery

   # Create a Celery instance
   app = Celery('hello', broker='pyamqp://guest@localhost//')

   # Define a task
   @app.task
   def greet():
       return 'Hello, World!'

   if __name__ == '__main__':
       app.start()
   ```

   In this example, we define a Celery task named `greet` using the `@app.task`
   decorator. The task simply returns the string "Hello, World!".

3. Start a Celery worker by running the following command in the same directory as `tasks.py`:

   ```bash
   celery -A tasks worker --loglevel=info
   ```

   This command starts a Celery worker that will process tasks.

4. In another file (e.g., `main.py`), import and enqueue the `greet` task:

   ```python
   from tasks import greet

   # Enqueue the task
   result = greet.delay()

   # Retrieve the result
   print(result.get())
   ```

   Here, we import the `greet` task from `tasks.py` and enqueue it using the `
   delay()` method. The `delay()` method returns a Celery `AsyncResult` object, 
   which allows us to retrieve the result of the task using the `get()` method. 
   In this case, we simply print the result.

5. Run `main.py`:

   ```bash
   python main.py
   ```

   You should see the output "Hello, World!" printed, indicating that the 
   Celery task has been executed successfully.


That's a basic "hello world" example in Celery. It demonstrates how to define 
a task, enqueue it, and retrieve the result using Celery workers. 

