# Concurrency - Plan of Study

**Understand the Basics of Concurrency:** 

Familiarize yourself with the concepts of concurrency, parallelism, and their 
benefits. 

Learn about different concurrency models, such as multithreading, 
multiprocessing, and asynchronous programming. 

**Learn Python Fundamentals:** 

If you're already comfortable with Python, you can skip this step. Otherwise, 
start by learning the fundamentals of Python programming, including syntax, 
data types, control flow, and functions. This foundation will be essential 
for understanding concurrency concepts and implementing them in Python. 

**Explore Threading and the GIL:** 

Study the `threading` module in Python and understand how to create and 
manage threads. 

Learn about the Global Interpreter Lock (GIL) in CPython and its impact on 
achieving true parallelism. 

Implement multithreaded programs and explore scenarios where threading is 
beneficial, such as I/O-bound tasks. 

**Dive into Multiprocessing:** 

Explore the `multiprocessing` module and learn how to work with processes in 
Python. 

Understand how processes differ from threads and their ability to achieve 
true parallelism. 

Implement multiprocessing solutions for CPU-bound tasks and compare their 
performance with threading. 

**Grasp Asynchronous Programming with Asyncio:** 

Study the `asyncio` library and its components, including coroutines, tasks, 
and event loops. 

Learn how to write asynchronous code using `async` and `await` keywords. 

Understand how asyncio improves the performance of I/O-bound operations and 
enables concurrent execution. 

**Use Concurrent.futures:** 

Explore the `concurrent.futures` module and its `ThreadPoolExecutor` and `
ProcessPoolExecutor` classes. 

Learn how to use futures and concurrent tasks to execute code concurrently. 

Compare and contrast the use of threading, multiprocessing, and 
concurrent.futures for different scenarios. 

**Apply Celery for Distributed Task Processing:** 

Dive into Celery and learn how to set up and configure a Celery distributed 
task queue. 

Understand the role of brokers and result backends in Celery. 

Implement tasks and workers using Celery to distribute and process tasks 
across multiple machines or processes. 

**Experiment with Gevent (Optional):** 

If you're interested in alternative approaches to concurrency, explore 
Gevent. 

Learn about greenlets and how Gevent allows for asynchronous I/O operations. 

Compare Gevent with other concurrency models and identify scenarios where it 
may be useful. 

**Build Real-World Projects:** 

Apply your knowledge of concurrency to real-world projects or problem domains 
that interest you. 

Implement concurrent solutions for specific use cases, such as web scraping, 
data processing, or API interactions. 

Gain hands-on experience and reinforce your understanding of concurrency 
concepts in practical scenarios. 

**Explore Advanced Topics:** 

Once you have a solid foundation in concurrency, you can delve into more 
advanced topics, such as distributed computing frameworks (e.g., Dask, 
PySpark) or high-performance networking libraries (e.g., Twisted, Tornado). 

Explore performance tuning techniques, synchronization primitives (e.g., 
locks, semaphores), and other advanced concurrency concepts to further 
enhance your skills. 


