# Concurrency

Concurrency involves executing multiple tasks or processes simultaneously, 
allowing for efficient utilization of CPU time and system resources. By 
breaking down a complex problem into smaller, independent tasks, you can 
execute them concurrently, reducing overall execution time. This can be 
achieved through techniques such as multithreading or asynchronous 
programming. 

Example: If you have a computationally intensive task that can be divided 
into smaller subtasks, you can create multiple threads or processes to 
execute them concurrently. This way, multiple computations can occur 
simultaneously, potentially speeding up the overall execution time. 


## Other example

Let's say you have a web server that receives requests from multiple clients. 
Each client request requires some processing, such as retrieving data 
fromsequentially, meaning it would process one request at a time. This 
approach can be inefficient, especially if some requests take a long time to 
complete. 

However, by introducing concurrency, you can improve the server's performance 
and responsiveness. One way to achieve this is by using multithreading. With 
multithreading, the server can create multiple threads, each responsible for 
handling a client request. These threads can run concurrently, allowing the 
server to process multiple requests simultaneously. 

For example, when a client sends a request, the server can create a new 
thread to handle that request. The thread can perform the necessary 
computations, fetch data from the database, and generate a response. 
Meanwhile, the main thread of the server can continue accepting new requests. 
As a result, the server can handle multiple requests concurrently, providing 
faster response times to clients. 

By leveraging concurrency, you can make the most efficient use of the CPU and 
system resources, as multiple tasks can be executed simultaneously. This 
approach is particularly beneficial in scenarios where tasks can be divided 
into smaller, independent units that can run concurrently without interfering 
with each other. 
