## Parallelism - Plan of Study

**Understand the Basics:**

Familiarize yourself with the concepts of parallel processing, including the 
benefits, challenges, and different types of parallelism. 

Learn about different parallel architectures, such as shared memory and 
distributed memory systems, and their implications for parallel programming. 

Gain knowledge about concurrent programming concepts, such as threads, 
processes, synchronization, and communication. 

**Learn Python Fundamentals:** 

If you're new to Python, start by learning the basics of the language. 
Understand variables, data types, control structures, functions, and object-
oriented programming (OOP) concepts. 

Explore Python's standard library and become familiar with modules related to 
concurrency, such as `threading` and `multiprocessing`. 

**Dive into Parallelism in Python:** 

Study the `threading` module to understand how to create and manage threads 
in Python. Learn about thread synchronization mechanisms like locks, 
semaphores, and condition variables. 

Explore the `multiprocessing` module to understand how to spawn and manage 
processes. Learn about inter-process communication techniques, such as pipes, 
queues, and shared memory. 

Practice implementing simple parallel programs using threads and processes in 
Python. 

**Explore Parallel Libraries and Frameworks:** 

Dive deeper into libraries and frameworks that facilitate parallel computing 
in Python, such as Dask, Joblib, and PySpark. Understand their key features, 
APIs, and use cases. 

Experiment with parallel computations using these libraries. Practice tasks 
like parallelizing array operations, data processing, and machine learning 
algorithms. 

**Learn about Advanced Topics:** 

Explore advanced parallel programming concepts, such as task-based 
parallelism, data parallelism, and workload partitioning. 

Study techniques for load balancing, scalability, and fault tolerance in 
parallel systems. 

Learn about performance analysis and optimization for parallel programs. 
Understand how to measure and improve the efficiency of your parallel 
computations. 

**Parallel Computing in a Distributed Environment:** 

Gain knowledge about distributed computing frameworks like Apache Spark and 
how to perform parallel data processing in a distributed environment. 

Understand concepts like data partitioning, data locality, and fault 
tolerance in distributed systems. 

Practice distributed parallel computing using Python and frameworks like 
PySpark. 


